Boundary documentation: added new metrics doc (#1977)
hashicorp/boundary: website/content/docs/operations/metrics.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Boundary Metrics
description: |-
  Obtain visibility of various components of a running Boundary
---

## Boundary Metrics

> Boundary provides Prometheus metrics for Controllers and Workers at the ops endpoint on port 9203 through the `/metrics` path. See the [sample code](#sample-code) section for an example listener stanza in a `config.hcl` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Boundary provides metrics through the `/metrics` path using a listener with the "ops" purpose. By default a listener with that purpose runs on port 9203. See the [sample code](#sample-code) section for an example listener stanza in a `config.hcl` file.
```

> For more information about Prometheus, see the [Prometheus Overview Guide](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview). The Prometheus Go library is used to define and export metrics from the Boundary system. The metrics uses the [OpenMetric exposition](https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exposition_formats/#openmetrics-text-format) format.

Reviewer 2: @talanknight Should I remove the entire sentence?

> For more information about Prometheus, see the [Prometheus Overview Guide](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview). The Prometheus Go library is used to define and export metrics from the Boundary system. The metrics uses the [OpenMetric exposition](https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exposition_formats/#openmetrics-text-format) format.

Reviewer: Maybe you could reword the last sentence to be something like 

> he metrics uses the [OpenMetric exposition](https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exposition_formats/#openmetrics-text-format) format which can be read by [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview).

Thoughts?

## Metrics Collected

> The following lists the current metrics used, their descriptions, and full metric names. Metric types collected include latency, traffic, and errors.

Reviewer: I think we can forgo the summary of the "metric types" and just let the table communicate which metrics are available for collection.
```suggestion
The following lists the current metrics exported, their descriptions, and full names.
```

### Controller API

| Metric        | Description                                   | Metric name   |
|---------------|-----------------------------------------------|---------------|
| Latency       | Historgram of latencies for HTTP requests.    | `boundary_controller_api_http_request_duration_seconds` |
| Request size  | Histogram of request sizes for HTTP requests  | `boundary_controller_api_http_request_size_bytes`       |
| Response size | Histogram of response sizes for HTTP requests | `boundary_controller_api_http_response_size_bytes`      |

### Controller Cluster API

| Metric        | Description                                    | Metric name   |
|---------------|------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| Latency       | Histogram of latencies for gRPC requests       | `boundary_controller_cluster_http_request_duration_seconds` |
| Request size  | Histogram of request sizes for gRPC requests   | `boundary_controller_cluster_http_request_size_bytes` |
| Response size | Histogram of response sizes for gRPC responses | `boundary_controller_cluster_http_response_size_bytes` |

> ### Worker Proxy Websocket:

Reviewer 3: Can you add the Worker Proxy Http subsection and its Time Until Header Written metric?

Reviewer: Along these same lines, I would probably just make this "Worker Proxy" and include both the websocket metrics as well as the Time Until Header Written metric.

| Metric             | Description                                             | Metric name   |
|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| Active Connections | Count of open websocket connections to Boundary workers | `boundary_worker_proxy_websocket_active_connections`   |
| Bytes Received     | Count of received bytes for Worker connections          | `boundary_worker_proxy_websocket_received_bytes_total` |
| Bytes Sent         | Count of sent bytes for Worker connections              | `boundary_worker_proxy_websocket_sent_bytes_total`     |

> ## Metric Labels

Reviewer 3: Sorry, I realized I left out some info on the labels section! I added a little bit to the draft design doc. Could you implement those organizational changes here please?

> For HTTP requests, the following labels should be used: `path`, `method`, `code`. The value for the `path` label removes any query parameters, replaces unbounded portions of the path to something unbounded, such as resource IDs to "{id}", for example, and maps any paths which are not expected into a single value "unknown."

Reviewer: The consumer of this documentation will not have any action to take on this.  It is strange to have phrasing like "the following labels should be used" since that is something that we, as engineers in Boundary do when implementing metrics.

---
layout: docs
page_title: Boundary Metrics
description: |-
  Obtain visibility of various components of a running Boundary
---

## Boundary Metrics

Boundary provides metrics through the `/metrics` path using a listener with the
"ops" purpose. By default a listener with that purpose runs on port 9203.  See
the [sample code](#sample-code) section for an example listener stanza in a
`config.hcl` file.

Metrics are important for understanding what is happening in a boundary

> deployment, enabling diagnoses of deployed controllers and workers. Adding
> metrics will grant greater visibility into the various components of a running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deployment, enabling diagnoses of deployed controllers and workers. The
exported metrics grant greater visibility into the various components of a running
```

Boundary deployment through Prometheus.

For more information about Prometheus, see the [Prometheus Overview

> Guide](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview). The Prometheus Go
> library is used to define and export metrics from the Boundary system. The
> metrics uses the [OpenMetric

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Guide](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview). Boundary uses the [OpenMetric
```

exposition](https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exposition_formats/#openmetrics-text-format)
format.

### Controller

The following lists the current names and descriptions of metrics provided for controllers.

| Name                                                          | Description                                   |
|---------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| `boundary_controller_api_http_request_duration_seconds`       | Historgram of latencies for HTTP requests.     |  
| `boundary_controller_api_http_request_size_bytes`             | Histogram of request sizes for HTTP requests.  |
| `boundary_controller_api_http_response_size_bytes`            | Histogram of response sizes for HTTP requests. |
| `boundary_controller_cluster_grpc_request_duration_seconds`   | Histogram of latencies for requests made to the gRPC service running on the cluster listener. |
| `boundary_controller_cluster_grpc_request_size_bytes`         | Histogram of byte sizes for requests made to the gRPC service running on the cluster listener. |

> | `boundary_controller_cluster_grpc_response_size_bytes`        | Histogram of byte sizes for responses from the gRPC service running on the cluster listener. |

Reviewer: These are no longer provided and should be removed.

Reviewer 2: Removed ([commit](https://github.com/hashicorp/boundary/pull/1977/commits/78bde823f2d445e36869c2c7b619d7587e9675c6))
